**Multi-omic profiling identifies distinct baseline signatures predicting human neonatal antibody responses to hepatitis B vaccine**

This repository contains the code and analysis scripts used in the EPIC-HIPC multi-omic manuscript, investigating infant immune responses to hepatitis B vaccination using a systems biology approach that integrates omics data from neonatal peripheral blood and plasma collected during the first week of life. We collected neonatal samples from Gambia (n=720) which were randomized to receive (1) Hepatitis B (HBV) vaccine alone, (2) Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG) vaccine alone, (3) HBV and BCG vaccines or (4) delayed vaccination. Each of the four groups were subdivided to receive catch-up vaccination at day of life 1, 3, or 7. As a validation cohort, neonatal samples from Papua New Guinea (n=101) were collected and randomized to the same 4 randomization groups as above, but only received catch-up vaccination at day of life 7 based on initial Gambian data. Each participant had blood drawn at day of life 0 as a baseline as well as at 1, 3 or 7. All neonates received all EPI-recommended vaccinations within the first week of life, but were vaccinated separately or together and delayed at different times to measure the effect of timing and vaccine administration on presence of molecular correlates of HBV vaccine. At pre- and post-vaccine; transcriptomics, epigenetics, flow cytometry, proteomics and metabolomics were measured to investigate the effects. Single and multi-OMIC regressions models were then applied to identify molecular feature and pathways associated with vaccine response. Since, multi-OMIC out performed single-OMIC models, the multi-OMIC models were validated three ways: 1) using a test set from Gambia, 2) using a distinct neonatal cohort from PNG and 3) in vitro utilizing an age-specific human tissue construct. Once validated, we utilized the models to identify cellular and molecular pathways associated with Hepatitis B surface antibody titers.
